for the details of this latest ceasefire
proposal kimbery we heard a very solemn
President Biden there announcing this
latest ceasefire proposal that he said
was announced by Israel proposed by
Israel talk us through the details of
it yeah the proposal uh that he says I
know some in Israel will not agree with
this plan he's urged the Israeli leaders
to stand behind this deal I asked them
to step back and think about what
happens if we lose this moment
suggesting that Israel will be isolated
if it does not go ahead with this
proposal the deal seems to be broken
down into three different phases uh and
that it would be phased in over six
weeks the first phase of it uh would be
to end the hostilities would be a full
withdrawal of the Israeli military the
second phase would be critical in that
it would be a release of the captives
the Israeli captives that are being held
in Gaza in exchange for Palestinian
prisoners that are in Israeli jails
hundreds of them that we know are being
held in captivity then the third phase
would involve the rebuilding of Gaza
this would be significant given the
widespread damage that has occurred as
well as 600 trucks of Aid now uh
obviously there's going to be need for
more Aid than that so I think this was a
daily number cuz we know the goal right
now has been less than half that so the
this is the United States saying that
this needs to be increased significantly
now what you're hearing from the US
president is that uh in trying to do
this this would be if this is achieved
over 6 weeks that this could be turned
into something lasting and enduring in
other words this would be the complete
and end and finality to hosti ities in
other words this would bring a cessation
to all of the fighting that has been
going on in other words this is
something that would be lasting and
enduring something that the United
States has been trying to achieve yeah
and in listening to the president there
kimbery it's clear that he wants to
bring this war to an end doesn't want it
to drag on uh in in the leadup to the
elections in
November yeah and what you heard there
is the president kind of dangling the
carrot if you will for
uh for Israel by saying that look it if
you don't you're going to be isolated
saying that this will allow you to
integrate talking about what this means
uh the opportunity with working with the
Arab neighbors and how this could lead
to uh broader stabilization in the
broader Middle East uh and so what
you've got there is the president
looking Beyond even uh Beyond his his
term if you will already laying the
groundwork for what he hopes he can do
if he is reelected and also laying down
that one message that Hamas needs to
take this deal as well okay kimbery
thank you very much for the moment
kimbery hit live for us there at the
White House let's now get the view uh
the perspective the Israeli perspective
and speak to Sarah hyat who's joining us
from Aman in Jordan because Israel has
banned Al jazer in Israel uh Sarah
President Biden saying there that it is
Israel which has offered this new
ceasefire deal but also said as Kimberly
pointed out there that there are those
in Israel in the Israeli cabinet who
will not agree to this
proposal yeah his speech was really
interesting because when there was a
ceasefire deal that did go through back
in November it lasted uh 10 days and at
the time they talked about potentially
three uh phases to get to a point where
the war would end but since then uh
these negotiation deals have haven't
happened there's been a toing and
throwing between the Israelis and then
the Hamas and each one accusing the
other of not abiding by the details or
not agreeing to them and certainly the
difference with this speech this time is
clearly the message was directed to the
leadership of uh Israel in fact uh Joe
Biden even mentioned some of those
ministers within the government he said
uh that want the Israelis to remain in
Gaza for many years to come some of
those ministers he didn't mention their
names but it's public knowledge that
ministers like itamar benav the National
Security uh Minister and bezau smotrich
the Finance Minister who are very open
in what they say about wanting uh
Palestinians to choose uh uh to leave
voluntarily from Gaza and those are
people that want to resettle Gaza
reoccupy Gaza and it's because of those
ministers in uh the Israeli government
that has led Israel to being condemned
internationally with many countries
turning against Israel when it comes uh
to calling on them to end uh this war
another thing he said is people in
Israel will not agree with this plan so
he's referring to those politicians and
those divisions that are in uh the
government he also says in the coalition
government he then says I urge
leadership in Israel to stand behind
this deal despite those objections a
message to toward Wass prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu who has almost had
his arm Twisted by those farri uh
ministers because without those uh
ministers without those parties uh that
coalition government could potentially
fall and new elections would need to
happen and of course there are calls
against prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu to resign as soon as possible
not just for the failures of October 7
happening in the first place but also by
families angry protesting in the knesset
against him saying you must accept a
deal no matter what that deal is folly
if you remember all for all was the word
that has been used for many months now
uh where the families of those held
captive were calling on any deal if it
means ending uh the war to allow those
held captive to return back home Sarah
thank you very much for that Sarah hyat
live there in Aman georan because again
the Israeli government has banned Al
jazer from reporting from inside Israel
so we have to do it from Aman let's now
head over to Gaza